All right.
Welcome to the section where we're going to finally get started here building this Instagram app.
And so the thing that we want to focus on here is the log in screen.
And so this is what it is that you're aiming to build We're going to have a nice Instagram logo at the
top.
You can enter in a username and password if you don't if you forget to enter the username or the password
either one if you try and sign up or something.
So the message that says hey a username and password is required but if you go ahead and enter in the
proper information like a user I created earlier John ABC 1 2 3 and I try and sign up.
So this is a new user that I use or that Benk already created if I try and sign up that person I should
get a message says hey that already exists.
But if I switch to log in and I have the proper information I log in I should have logged out in Android
studio that hey it was successful you don't have to visually show anything for that because our next
step is we want to make it actually start the app and move into the main screens there.
But that's the challenge for you.
We want you to do as much of this as you can on your own and I'll come back and help you out.
Good luck.
So in this lecture we're going to start building this Instagram clone.
And the thing that we want to build here is the log in slash Sign-Up screen.
And before we get started with anything we want to make that page look really nice so we're going to
dive into the visual side of things.
And there's a couple of steps that we've got to do to get there.
So one of them is that if we go to our Android studio project you may see this with your particular
project you may not see it but if we go to Edit the layout file will you open up this activity main.
You may see a kind of greyed out screen here that doesn't allow us to update the information that's
inside of this relative layout that we have here you get it saying Android dot dot dot action are really
lay out.
So if this is the case for you if you're seeing this hopefully I'm going to try and get some fixes in
there so you won't run into this issue if you just have a white screen that means you're ready to rock
and roll.
But if you do have this we can fix it.
And what we're gonna do is we're going to close out of that and then we're going to go to our cradle
scripts here and we want to do the buildout grateful for the module.
So double click on that.
And then once we're there we want to update this for the latest version of Android so we're going to
change this compile SDK version to 26.
This minimum SDK version that's going to be 26 target 26 and if we scroll down here we want to change
this from 23 to 26 point zero point zero.
So just take a second to go ahead and do those updates there.
And once you've done that you can go ahead and hit sync now.
And this is going to take a moment to kind of go through everything and get this project ready to rock
and roll.
But while it is doing this let's go ahead and go to their browser because part of making this nice logon
screen is we need a good image.
So let's open up a new tab and you can use whatever sort of sites search you want to go get a good image.
We need some sort of Instagram icon.
I like the website flat icon dot com.
I'll go ahead and do a little search for Instagram.
Remember wherever you get your images make sure that if you're going to release it on the store that
you have proper rights to use those images so here on flat icon you just have to give.
Excuse me.
You have to give proper respect to the Creator so here it's free pick.
And again you know we're not putting this in the App Store but it could be as simple as referencing
them at some point your app you want to use that or there's a paid version where you don't even have
to mention that but getting too deep into the weeds here.
Let's go ahead and download a version let's do maybe 256 PMG here.
That's a nice looking logo.
And let's go ahead and throw that on our desktop.
OK let's go back to android studio.
Looks like things have been fixed up here let's look at our activity main.
See if that's fix things for us we might have to end up deleting this file and opening it again.
We'll go ahead and give it a second here to work itself out.
No it looks like it's going to be OK.
So with that in place let's go ahead and start building this out.
And part of that is going to be getting that Instagram image into our apps are going to Right-Click
rez here.
We want to do a new resource directory because we want to have a draw bowlful there so we can out of
that image we're going to draw all OK there and then I'm going to go to my desktop I'm going to copy
this Instagram image and I'm going to paste it here.
It's going to ask do you want to have this in.
I'm going to say yes and now let's give ourselves some space to work with here.
We want to bring out a image so we're going to select image view and just drag and drop it here.
It's going to ask what images you want to put in there so let's just go ahead and search for Instagram.
We'll hit enter that allow us to bring that and so we want to have this near the top but we don't want
it to be that big.
So rather than wrap content we're going to just a specified amount here and this is a square image so
maybe we could just simply say 50 by 50 looks maybe a little bit small I might bump that up to like
70 by 70 either.
But we'll have that Instagram image the next thing that we need to be adding Here is some added text
because the basic idea with this is we want users to be able to put in a user name and they also should
be able to put in their passwords then hit sign in.
So let's go to text and we're going to bring out a plain text here or edit text and we'll bring in a
little bit below.
We want to make this nice and wide so we'll just say go ahead and match parent.
We're also going to bring out another one of these below.
And on this one too we'll say we want you to match parent and then we're going to bring out a button
below all this that says Sign up.
So we'll have this button and we're going to double click on this button to change its text to say sign
up and we've got that and then we need to change these to edit text so for the first one we want to
get rid of the what we want to add a hint there and get rid of this name thing so we'll get rid of that
name and we're going to add a hint here and the hint is going to be a user name and then we'll come
down here for our next one.
Get rid of name and we're going to add as our hand password so the user knows those are the two things
that they should be typing in that box.
Now with this sign up button we want to make sure that we give a name for it's on click.
So let's go ahead and add a name like sign up clicked.
That looks good.
And with this in place we just have to give some ideas to that.
So image you too I don't think we'll be working with the image.
So that's probably fine.
But for this we want to call this something like user name a text for this guy here.
Say yes to this for our password friend we're gonna say password it Tex let's get rid of that too and
I'll say yes to that.
And what the sign up button we'll call it.
Sign up button and we'll add that.
So now that we have the proper IDs in place it's time to go write some code for when someone hits the
Sign-Up button.
So let's go to our main activity here.
And we have a whole lot of code from last time so I'm going to go ahead and clear out most of this.
So on this parce analytics stuff but from here I guess even before this on Create we want to make a
new method in which we are going to be you know responding to the unclick and we had given her on the
name of sign up clicked.
So let's just go ahead and copy that to make sure we don't make any mistakes.
We're going to save public void
sign up collect we're going to have a view passed inside of there which we'll just call you and then
we'll do our curly brackets.
Then once we have that in place we have to get access to the to edit text so we'll say edit text.
We'll call this one user name edit text and this will just be equal to find view by ID.
Apple art ID that name added text and I'll be one we can copy and paste most of this for the next text
because they're so similar just this one will be called Password edit text and we'll have to change
this to password and it text.
So then once we have access to both of those.
The first thing that we want to temptin sort of check for is make sure that you know we have both a
user name and password.
So what we're going to do is we're going to do a little statement here.
I say little you're going to watch this is going to end up being pretty big and the first thing we want
to check is let's get the username added text dot get text dot and then we want to turn that into a
string.
And we want to check and see if this is equal to an empty string.
So if that's equal to an empty string or we have the password at it text get text to string is equal
to an empty string if either of these things are true.
We want to send a message to the user that the username and password are required.
So we'll do a text message here.
I say.
Make text and in this all past this is a context and then we'll say something like a user name and a
password are required so that the user knows you know something's wrong they didn't give the proper
information and then the next thing is we have to say how long we want this to show force or how to
say toast.
I like length short you can decide that and then we'll finally show this toast message.
All right.
So that's the situation.
If they were you know didn't enter in both a user name and password but the else of the situation is
a good situation.
This means they have those two things in place and we should attempt to sign up the user.
So we're going to come to the logon portion of a second here.
But we want to focus on signing up.
So the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to get a parse user and we'll just call this
person user and this is a new parse user.
Once we're here we've got to set the user's username and password which we have from the text so we
can say that username that set user name and it's looking for a string.
So we're going to get to the user name and text that get text that does not get text that was something
much bigger.
And here we go get text dot to string and then I'll successfully go and grab that.
We also want to set the password.
So then we'll go to our password edit text get text not to string.
You probably got to guess that one half.
And once we have those things in place we are ready to sign up this users are going to say user that
sign up in background we want to get access to the callback so we're going to say new sign up callback
there and we simply just want to know if this worked out.
So we're going to check our exception here we're going to say if E is cool to know make sure we have
two equal sign there so if it's equal to no.
That means things are probably good.
Then we can go ahead and write out some sort of message like saying you know maybe the sign up I forgot
that we were trying to do a log here so when I say log I will say sign up comma success.
I forgot to put that in double quotes.
There we go.
That looks better.
So we've got that in place.
But if for some reason we aren't able to get the sign up process to work we need to display the reason
why so the user knows what's going on.
So we're going to do a toast as well here so we're going to say whoa stop make text this.
And then for the string we're actually going to use the exception and on the exception we can do a dot
get message.
And this is a little bit of a friendlier sort of text that we can show to the user that's not going
to show some big massive you know error code that would kind of freak them out.
So and this situation to say.
Yes.
Message that's the thing that we want to show the user decide how long we want this to show up for sure
it's a good idea and then we'll go ahead and show that.
So with this all in place let's go ahead and run this on our device see what this looks like.
Oh we are getting an error here and this is because we need to get to the main activity.
This should fix our issues there but we're in the middle of building.
So we'll see if you know that kind of crapped out so we'll get run again and hopefully this time we'll
get success there.
So the basic idea here is we're first going to check and see if either of these strings these added
text were left empty if they were going to do a little Tulse to say hey these you know username and
password required but if not we're going to try and sign up if it's successful we should see a new user
created in the back end on parce.
So pretty exciting moment here for us so we'll get our emulator up here.
And just wait till this finishes.
So our app opened up and here it is let's go ahead and you know try just hit the sign up button without
even you know typing anything inside so I'll go ahead and hit that and look at this.
We get a Java dot laying exception which is not exactly what.
But still we can say something username cannot be missing or blank.
OK so we are getting an air here and what actually happened is that did try and do the sign up process.
But the reason for that is because we kind of poorly did the check here to see if these things were
completely empty.
So we want to do a little bit of a better check here.
And so what we're going to do is after we've done our two string we're going to say Dot matches and
we'll put an empty string inside of there.
And again we'll do the same thing here or we're going to say Dot matches and we'll go ahead and put
in an empty string there.
So with that change in place hopefully we'll see a little bit of an error code here because that was
not one that you would expect to see as a user you know.
That was our fault as programmers.
You know we were using the wrong sorts of statements.
So let's see what we get now.
Here comes the app and all sign up and give out a username and password are required.
And let's say I put it in a new username like John and I hit sign up still that says that because I
don't have a password.
So let's go ahead and put in a password maybe I'll just say ABC 1 2 3 and we'll go ahead and sign up
and we don't see any toasts here.
But if we go to our to do or log and excuse me we should see Sign-Up success.
So that means it's telling us that it went through correctly.
Well let's go ahead and confirm this by going to our parce dashboard let's reload this page and look
at that.
We have a new user John.
So to sort of test our code as well.
Let's go ahead and try hitting Sign-Up again for John and if we hit sign up we'll get that account already
exists for this username so we know that.
All right.
You know we're getting back some good information if we try and sign up with the same name or something
like that.
All right.
So excellent starting point here really the next thing for us to do is we've got to add the option now
for someone to log in.
So we're going to go back to android studio and we're going to work on the visual side of things again.
So we want to add an option sort of off here to the side that says you know you can sign up or you could
log in.
And so we could use another button.
It might look a little bit tacky.
So we're going to take just a regular text view here.
We're going to put it right off to the side.
And with this in place we're going to give it some sort of text like or comma log in.
Just like that.
And there's a few other changes that we want to make here specifically the text color.
We want to be different from other text so that the user kind of knows oh this is something that I could
probably tap on and interact with.
So with this we can go ahead and choose an option maybe this blue looks pretty good.
I think that kind of conveys what we're trying to do.
Yeah.
I think that looks pretty good.
And I might bump up the font on this and I believe that's through text size that we can do that so it's
me you see it 20 looks like.
Yeah I think that's pretty good so we'll have that off to the side there.
The next thing that we've got to do is you've got to make it so that this text view can actually be
selected right like that we have we are listening to see whether or not it's been tapped.
So to do that there's a few things that we've got to do.
Let's go to our main activity we've done this before but after we have this extends app compatibility
we're going to write some extra code that says implements we're going to do capital view dot on click
listener.
So this is saying hey this is you know can handle when different elements are being clicked on and where
you have to go and implement a function for that so we're going to do on click if you just go ahead
and type that out should be able to hit enter there and that's going to get rid of that era that you
saw up top.
Now that we have this in place we want to check and make sure that the thing that they've clicked is
in fact the proper text view so we're going to do an if statement here where we're going to say if our
curly brackets are in there and we want to do you dot get ID gives us back in and we're going to see
if this is equal to our dot ID and I realized we haven't given a proper ID to this text so we'll maybe
call this log in text view it's a little bit maybe not the greatest name because these are going to
switch between being log in and sign up.
But with this kind of work with that paradigm for now.
But now we should be able to say Dot log in text view and we can check and make sure that this is the
correct one.
So if this is the case let's go ahead and make sure we're on the right track by logging out some info
and say switch
was tapped.
OK.
So once we have that in place we're still not done here.
We're going to have to scroll down to our on create method and inside of here is where we're going to
want to set this text view is should be you know looking for that function.
So first we've got to have access to the text views are going to say text view and let's just call this
log in text view and say this is equal to find view by ID are done the log in text view.
Simple as that.
Then once that's in place we want to take this log in text view and let me do the proper importing here
so go ahead and hit enter.
And I'm still not happy with what we have.
Let's go ahead and let's see loggin text few here.
I mean ultimately what we do is set on click listener so we do this on click listener or pass and this.
And let's see if we can't figure out what's going on here implicit cast out because we are working with
a different version of Android here.
We're going to have to cast this to say that this is going to be of type text you hear when we go ahead
and pass that through and unexpected view takes you like a tag was relative way out.
Oh I've probably given the incorrect name too.
Yep I've called the whole relatively out the log in text you so I'm going to cut that and I'm going
to call this lay out and then I'm going to now select the text view and paste in the proper information.
So yeah I don't even think the casting was necessarily the problem let's see if we can delete that and
get.
Yeah.
That was not the issue.
OK.
So we're in a much better place here now that we've got this going.
Let's go ahead and test this to see if we can get that information to shop so we'll go ahead and run
this on the emulator and once we can confirm that we can get this information to log out.
The next step for us is going to be making it so that when they click on that that we can you know change
everything from being in the sign up mode to a log and load.
But then if they tap it again to go back to a log in mode we just want to be able to switch between
the two states there.
So here it comes.
Let's go ahead and hit that text view and let's have log cat here so that we can see what's going on
and whoops want to close this out.
If I
don't just log out there we go.
Great.
Now I'm showing.
Put that down and log.
There we go.
Geez.
So once this is open let's tap this a few times and look at that.
It's showing up down below.
OK.
So we know that that's working for us after we've done this.
I mean so we probably don't need to say that this was tapped.
But like I said the next thing is we want to get the proper setup here.
So there's a couple of things that we want to do.
And the first one is we should have a boolean appear at the top that tells us whether or in sign up
mode or log it moated we can kind of switch back and forth whenever we hit this on.
So I'm going to make a new boolean that I'm going to call sign up mode active K and this is going to
tell us whether or not we're in sign up motor logging mode and I'm going to set it equal to true.
Initially a few of the things that we're going to need is that log in button we should have that text
view we should have that up here so I'm actually just going to go down and copy this.
Delete the beginning part here and I'll go ahead and paste that up top so we have access to it here
inside.
We want to have access to the actual sign up button.
So we're going to say button and I'll call the sign up button is equal to find view by id Capitol our
ID dot sign up button.
OK.
Now with these things in place we can sort of do a little statement on when someone is trying to switch
from one mode to the other so that if we want to check for as well what mode are we in so we're going
to say if I sign up mode active.
So if they are currently in Sign-Up mode this means they're trying to go to log in mode.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take our sign up mode active and we're going to set this
equal to false.
Next step for us is we have to update our sign up button.
So we're going to take our sign up button and we're going to say set text on that and the text that
we want to set it equal to is just simply log in.
But then we also want to update this text for you to say you know how you can switch back to sign up
if you want to sort of a log and text few dot set text and we are going to pass in there or comma sign
up so go ahead and add that.
So now you can probably imagine the situation is basically the exact opposite of all this.
I'm going to copy all this code and just line by line do the opposite.
So the set of false should be true sort of log in I should say sign up and this should say or log in.
And I guess I'm kind of being inconsistent here.
I want to be consistent.
This is going to say sign up sign up and I should probably go back here and change this to oh we have
sign up separated there.
OK.
So we're at a good place.
So that should be a good looking chap.
Let's go ahead and give it the old Tester's ski.
We'll hit it run here and see what this looks like so we should see the text for the button and the
text for you sort of flipping back and forth and sort of behind the scenes this boolean should be switching
back and forth and we'll know that it's working.
If we see that text switching back and forth so here's the emulator to hit that button.
Oh yeah look at that we can just ding the leaning leaning thing.
Go ahead and fly between each of those.
So with that in place now that we can you know determine whether an loggin mode or Sign-Up mode what
we want to do now is you know after we make sure they've added added a username and a password when
we're coming down here to you know do the sign up.
We only want to do the Sign-Up is you know if they're in Sign-Up mode so do an if statement here where
we say if sign up mode active we'll do our opening curly bracket and we want to do that.
If I do all this stuff up to this point if that's the case we get that nice tab.
But then we have an else to say hey if that didn't work out this is a log in situation.
So this is when we want to log somebody in.
So this is where we're going to go ahead and write the code in order to log someone in.
So we'll just say capital parse user up log in in background and a few things that we've got to pass
side of here.
So the first one is we got to get that user name edit text not get text string.
That gives us the user name.
Next we got to do a similar thing for the passwords.
Get the other text.
Get text to string.
Excellent.
And then the last thing that we need is a new we want this to be log in callback.
So this will tell us you know whether or not this all worked out.
So do a quick check here to make sure we actually have users around to say as long as a user is not
equal to know.
That means we're probably in a good place.
Let's just go ahead and log out or say log out.
Not trying to log out of the app I want to log some information that says something like log in and
we'll say OK.
Exclamation point.
And the else in the situation is when we would want to display a message to the user so we can actually
just copy this code that we had for when someone's trying to do a sign up and paste it in.
Because in both situations the exception is called.
So we can just go ahead and do that.
So with that in place let's go ahead and give this a test we'll hit the run button here.
And this is kind of our big moment of truth.
We should see you know we're able to successfully sign people up.
Maybe we were not able to but let's go and check it out.
The one that I want to work with is this new user John will try signing up with a wrong password and
see what we get there.
So we're going to put John for the name and then let's do a password of like I'm just going to enter
in some random jibberish and I'm going to try and sign up.
So we should get the message account already exists.
That's good.
But let's switch to log in.
I'm going to try and log in.
It's going to say Invalid username password.
OK well what happens if I go ahead and change this to ABC 1 2 3.
We don't see anything here but that should mean that if we go back to android studio inside of log had
Look at that the log in is OK.
So that means we're ready to rock and roll.
So it's with that message that we know that this app is officially ready to go.
Really the next step for us is if we go ahead and look at this emulator here there's one kind of big
glaring thing that I want to fix and that's this keyboard is kind of just in the way I'd like it if
I clicked outside of it for it to disappear and I'd like it so that I could hit this button when I'm
finished typing my password and it will automatically be entered in.
So that's what we're going to cover in the next lecture.
I just actually realized what we're looking at this.
We have our password exposed without showing the proper sort of password.
You know dot dot dot to sort of hide what it is that the user is typing in case someone you know they're
in a public place on their phone which is quite common so let's get our second text here.
And once we're there we want to go ahead and update the input type and we want to change this to be
text password.
So let's go ahead and find that boom we've got the text password.
Go ahead.
Hit OK on that and now we'll go ahead and type.
We should see the dots but still sort of the bigger thing and what we're going to be covering in the
next lecture is the fact that you know we need to be able to have some sort of relationship to manage
that keyboard.
So let's go ahead and test this out make sure we type something.
Oh yeah.
Those there's those bullet points we're looking for.
Let's try and log in with this says Invalid username password.
Of course some random name random password wouldn't work.
OK.
Let's go check that out.